1 What does it do?

The bootd project allows netbooting a wide variety of clients using
different protocols with one configuration and one server daemon,
with easy configurability and diagnostics.

1.1 Why is this useful?

Netbooting has always been a bit of an adventure even for experienced
users. It required a lot of in-depth knowledge and also a bit of
luck and persistence. Bootd makes this simple by providing a single
"bootserver" daemon, with a single simple configuration file.

1.2 What's wrong with the standard implementations?

The "standard" implementations come from a variety of sources. Each
has their own configuration format, quirks, and limitations, but
to successfully boot a netboot client, often 3 or more server daemons
need to be set up correctly.

Some of those configuration formats are rather old-school and
unforgiving, and misconfigurations often fail silently. Generally,
the standard implementations don't log much

The configurations are redunant and need to be kept in sync.

1.3 Why is bootd better?

Bootd puts all configuration in one place, in an easy to write and
easy to read format, which is not so easy to get wrong by accident.
It also has very extensive and flexible logging to make it easy to
find out where something goes wrong. It's modular design makes it
easy to add new protocols.

2 Does it work?

I have been using it to netboot all my machines (see below for a list).

2.1 What does it run on?

Older versions ran on FreeBSD (not tested recently). Current version
works on Linux and Mac OS X. It should be easy to port to any system
that has libpcap and libnet.

2.2 What protocols does it support?

* RARP
* Bootparam
* TFTP
* RMP
* MOP (wip)
* BOOTP/DHCP (wip)
* NFS (wip)

2.3 Why is protocol XYZ not supported? 

Because I don't have a machine that needs it.

Send me information (documentation, the output of `tcpdump -s1500 -e -X` or whatever you think might be helpful), and I'll do my best to add that protocol. Or just send me patches ;)

2.4 What clients have been tested?

Machine             OS               Protocols               Status
HP 425t		    NetBSD  1.5      RMP, RARP, TFTP         OK
SUN SPARCstation 4  Solaris 2.5.1    RARP, TFTP, Bootparam   OK
                    NetBSD  1.5      RARP, TFTP, Bootparam   OK
                    RedHat Linux 6.2 RARP, TFTP              OK
DECstation 5000/33  NetBSD  1.5      RARP, TFTP              OK
NCD 19              NCDWare 3.3      TFTP                    OK
